I'm the office secretary, so it didn't bother me.
And then I got an office of my own.
Gosh, it must have been a year, two years later.
We were on the second floor then.
And then the dean's office was moved over to the new area.
And we moved in that area.
I'm trying to remember.
There used to be a museum on the first floor.
Okay.
Dean's office down where, Dean's office, down where microbiology is now, the old building.
This building here was where we are now.
This was here.
This was part of Smallville Clinic.
Is that right?
No, I'll take it back.
This was not here.
On the other side of the elevator, that was a small clinic and this building was not here in the 60s where we are now.
Of the various responsibilities, the various departments and so forth, which the facilities in veterinary medicine then were best for what area and worst for what?
No, the best was probably the Suamble Clinic for receiving cases, I think.
That would be my first reaction.
Pathology, the necropsy lab was probably the best other than that at that time.
Was there any that the typical veterinary medicine faculty member thought was kind of the favorite area?
Not unless it was the clinic area, no.
And how did you and your wife, how were you all received?
Were there any social activities then?
Yeah, particularly the three of us, the Kimbers and the Ramgies, we were kind of, we got along well together.
Some of the others were a little bit slow because they already had their own, you know, groups.
Dr. Jaggi was very nice to us, but his wife was, she was afraid of the dark so we didn't go out at night and afraid of storms and clouds, so she had some hang-ups, so we didn't get together then very often, so.
Was there any all-faculty social event?
No, not like that.
Nothing like that?
No, yeah.
But did the students have any social events then?
Yeah, they used to have a barbecue at the end of the year and probably at the beginning of the year.
And that got kind of wild, so they had to cut that out after a while.
Describe it as you remember it.
As I remember it, barbecue, they had barbecued chicken and generally, and sometimes beef.
It was generally held at the, oh gosh, it used to be on Highway 21 East.
An old white building, a meeting hall sometime.
Remember that?
I can't remember if it's not there anymore, Haskell.
I want to say K.C.
Hall, Knights of Columbus Hall, something like that.
I remember we used to meet there.
It was pretty run down then.
But they'd have loud music and a lot of beer and a lot of barbecue.
And sometimes it got a little bit rambunctious, start throwing chicken at each other and things like that.
We left pretty soon.
We'd go for about an hour.
Did the students have dates?
Not, not very often, no.
And they cooked it?
Yeah, they cooked it.
Sometimes it was pigs and pork from the, they apparently got them out from the, from the, they said necrops, but I'm sure they had some hogs they were raising from the clinic.
They often got an animal, you know, donated at the clinic and they would barbecue that.
I just remember they, they were pretty rambunctious, but we'd go to them and leave early.
Now, how did you and your family become part of the community?
Through the church, yeah.
Describe that.
Well, we joined the church as soon as they came here.
Why that church?
It was kind of an alternating affair.
We, we, Martha was Presbyterian and I was Methodist.
And when we first got married, we went to the Methodist Church.
We went, first we moved to Higgsville, Missouri.
We went to Presbyterian Church.
Our next time we went to Methodist, it was time to go to the Presbyterian kind of agreement.
But also some, a couple of the elders called on us in our home there on the Franklin Avenue and invited us to the church.
And we went.
How did they know you were Presbyterian?
Did you all visit?
I think we visited, yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, Martha will remember all the details.
She'll tell you who was there.
And I want to say Mickey was one of them.
Mickey McGuire?
Mickey McGuire, yeah.
Uh-huh.
And I think Doc Dunham, no, uh, McNeil Drumwright.
I'm pretty sure those two came by and visited with us.
And, of course, Dick Thomas was there.
How long did it take you all before you decided that was a history?
We didn't consider any other church.
We just started going there, so that's one way we went to.
And then did you all get involved in any other community activities?
I got involved for a while in the Lions Club, Morning Lions Club.
But I had so many classes, particularly 8 o'clock, that you got too much of a hassle going to 7 o'clock meeting and leaving.
Now, and the youngsters weren't, they weren't school age when you all got here, were they?
No, they were not, no, no, no.
So you had a chance to get started?
Right, right.
At home and so forth.
Right.
Did you have any problems adjusting to Bryan, to Texas, to this climate?
Oh, a little bit to climate, yes.
Yeah.
I mentioned school a while ago.
We had no air conditioning in this building.
And I can still remember, I think it was here three years before we got a window unit.
So you'd depend on fans and open windows, and it got pretty doggone hot.
And we also, we didn't have an air-conditioned car, so.
It made a difference.
And you didn't have air conditioner at home, did you, at first?
No, not at first we didn't.
But when you go shopping or go to a store, it seemed like you were going to freeze to death.
It was amazing, the difference in air conditioning.
So from that standpoint, the weather was, you know, I still remember being very hot.
And after we were here four or five years, I bought a new car and bought it without air conditioning.
I thought I was going to get killed.
But anyway, at that time, they weren't too popular.
What was it like to become an Aggie?
How long did you get involved in any of the campus activities?
Did you go to football games, basketball?
Yeah, we went to football games.
And a little bit of basketball games, right.
Football and basketball.
Went to those.
What were your impression of the Aggie traditions?
Well, it was very impressive, yeah.
Yeah, they're different.
Staying up throughout the game was when he got on the other side of the field from the, on the.
And the, the band and all that.
Oh, yeah.
And Ravelin.
Watch the Corps march in, yeah.
Yeah.
As far as athletic events, the thing I remember most vividly is my younger son and I liked to go watch Randy Mattson when he was, and we were sitting down to the north end of the Oval there when he broke the world record.
Boy, I still remember that.
April 22nd, 1963.
You were there?
I think, or is it 67?
I think 67, I think.
67.
No, no, I still remember that.
This is an editorial note.
I had talked to Randy Monday before that to tell him that I was invited to give the muster speech in Waco on Friday night, the 21st.
They had called and said, bring your whole family, we'll put you up for the
for Friday and Saturday nights.
You can have a wild Waco weekend.
Which I thought was kind of a tease.
Then I had learned that Randy was going to throw the shot on Saturday the 22nd for the last time at Kyle Field wearing an Aggie uniform.
I had met Randy the day he came to visit as a prospective recruit and I was very much a track fan and knew who he was and I was very, very, very deeply impressed with him as a person then and still am.
So, when I saw him that Monday before the 22nd, I said, okay, Randy, I'm canceling the Waco Saturday night.
Going to come back early Friday morning, Saturday morning.
Will you make it worth my while?
He very seriously said, I'll do my best, sir.
He broke the record, I believe, on his first throw and I was so impressed.
And the next Monday I ran into him again at MSC and I said, Randy, how in the world did you do that?
How could you accomplish that?
He said, well, I lay awake a good number of nights trying to figure out how could I show people here how grateful I was for all of the thoughtfulness they had given to me.
And he said, I'm not very good at making speeches like some of you guys.
I can't put words together that well.
And then I decided maybe the best way for me to show my appreciation was to use my right arm.
I told him that was far more eloquent than the rest of us than it should ever be.
End of note.
So you found it comparatively pleasant to become a part of the campus and the community around the campus.
Yes, sure.
All right, let's move forward then.
As the vet school, what was your first new responsibility after those first two courses?
To develop one in epidemiology and I did, yes.
And that would be for what level?
That was for third year?
I think we started out the third year, yes.
I mean, we eventually moved it to first year.
Describe that course.
That course was very difficult to teach, but it was a fun course, fun course.
It was new.
What made it difficult?
Well, there's no textbook for it as far as that level.
There was, you have to use a lot of problems, stuff like that to try to get the point across, so you have to develop those.
It used to matter, it took a while to develop material which I thought would be integrated with the, the such material.
So that's, that's basically it, basically it.
And it included what species of animals?
It's all of them.
Epidemiologists, it applies to any animals, but I tried to make it apply to specific diseases that they knew about, because the third year they'd already had many of these diseases, because Dr. Jag is teaching, for example, canine distemper,
There's a part of the disease of dogs, canine to simply be one of horses, different things like that.
So it, from my standpoint, it worked out pretty good.
Did you start with any specie of animal at the first of the semester?
No, no, no.
I just used start principles and, well, I did start, the example was one species of human because the classic John Snow cholera outbreak in London in 1855 was the way to start, so.
What did you use as your model?
A model.
Yeah, did, was there some, was this course taught somewhere else?
No, no, as far as I know it was the first time it had been taught.
I used some, model derived from material I'd had at Tulane where I worked and got my masters in public health.
Did you propose the course or did?
No, they felt like they needed one.
when I came here, and I told them, well, I'll develop one, so that's the way it ended.
What did the students think about it when they first had it?
They didn't want it, I don't think.
Oh, they took it.
I mean, at that time, students, you know, they weren't very rebellious.
They were very receptive, and as far as I know, they took it okay.
Did it get a nickname or a reputation?
It may have, but I didn't learn it.
What did they think about its difficulty?
Probably concepts, you know, the concept of how disease is transmitted.
And I tried to make it vivid for them as vivid as I could, give them examples.
And it was lecture and lab?
No, just lecture.
Lecture?
Yeah, yeah.
What, did it replace any?
No, it was a new course, new course.
Entirely?
Mm-hmm.
All right, so then this is your third or fourth year.
And you were teaching that every?
Every year, yeah.
Every year.
And then what about the other two?
Uh, I didn't have anything in the first two years, you know.
I mean not.
But we had the third year every year, so I was teaching that year around.
And then we went to the trimester soon after that.
That was, that was another experience.
Describe, describe the trimester.
Trimester you went from two regular semesters of 16 weeks, 17 weeks to three 15 week semesters.
This way the students would take, well it's supposed to have been three years but actually a little bit more than three years because they're going year around what it amounts to.
So they graduate a year earlier or nine months earlier what it amounts to.
They graduate August, anyway.
It's very concentrated, we have to give all exams at 7 o'clock in the morning and classes start at 8.
Now this started in the early 60's, soon after I came here, I have to stop and think.
I'm trying to think, Haskell, yeah.
Because I would have to go out and I was doing my research then, so I was doing some work on horses.
I had to go out and bleed the horses before 7 o'clock.
If I had an exam, I'd probably get up at 5 o'clock and go out and bleed the horses every morning.
They'd do this for a year, just every day.
Then you'd come back and teach the students.
And if you had an exam, which exams are always 7 o'clock.
Students weren't very receptive to that, but they were anxious to get out nine months early, so it worked that way.
Where did the idea for the trimester come from?
Al Price.
Is that right?
Yeah, well, he's one implemented.
He's one pushed.
It was really developed by Armstead.
Armstead was dean here before Al Price, and he went to Michigan State and developed it there, and Al Price liked it, so we took from there.
The idea was you'd turn out more veterinarians by just having three years.
Well, you do it one time and then you're in sequence again.
So you gain one graduating class.
And this lasted about how long?
It lasted about...
I want to say 15 years, I think.
That's quite a while.
And then it was eventually terminated.
It was terminated.
And they phased out.
They gave the students a choice whether they wanted to continue after they got in the first year, if they wanted to continue on the trimester or go to a four-year system.
So they let them choose.
They came down half the class wanted to have the summers off.
The other half wanted to get out of here.
What would, if the faculty had voted, what would they have voted?
They'd vote to get rid of it.
That's what I had thought.
Yeah, yeah.
Because the theory was you'd teach two, you'd be off one, but it never worked out the way.
You were always a class.
Well, like my, my, pardon, I was the only one to teach in those courses, so year-round, year-round, so.
Now, you mentioned research.
When did you begin your research?
I began my research about a year after I came here, yeah.
And what was your first area of specialization?
My first area was pathology.
I was a pathology graduate student.
At that time, the funds for pathology research were real, all stirred right up.
And Charlie Bridges, I forgot about him.
He was another department head.
And he kept suggesting things that I didn't really want to work on.
They weren't very in my interest.
I finished all my coursework and Leland Grumbles approached me and said they had some, they got a research grant on equine infectious anemia, viral disease of horses.
Would I be willing to do my research on that?
He was on my committee.
Dr. Bridges was chair of it.
And to make a long story short, I switched my degree program over to majoring in microbiology.
In fact, they just created a Ph.D.
in veterinary microbiology.
And so I did my research on that for the magnitude.
So I kind of switched.
After I did my coursework, I switched degree majors in midstream.
But it worked out okay because I had to do a lot of pathology on the horses.
Now we're working on your Ph.D.
Right.
When you came here, did you have that as one of your goals?
Yes, it was, yeah.
If I'm back up, when we went to Iowa State, they offered me a position up there, and after talking over with Martha, after we got back to Kansas City, we said no, and I informed them, they said, well, would you consider applying for NIH fellowship and come here as a full-time graduate student?
And that particular time, I had a Dr. Mortar, who was head of their research station, or whatever you call it, at Iowa State University for Veterinary School.
So I said, yes, I wrote up a research proposal,
applied to the NIs of H and
And that's the last I heard of it until after I came down to A&M and wasn't here two weeks.
I got a notification I'd been awarded my NIH Fellowship full time to Iowa State.
So I had another decision to make.
And so we decided to stay here.
I felt kind of bad at being here a few, you know, weeks and leaving, so.
But anyway, I came here with the intention of staying three or four years, getting my, get a degree, and then so I could go on because my interviews
Iowa State and of course here and contact Oklahoma State that obviously you need to go for a PhD.
And if I wanted to stay in academia and I felt like well maybe that's what I wanted to do.
Anyway, I was pretty well decided I was going to do that when I came and we talked about that so you can do your research here.
To do it, I'd have to take off one summer or more to go full time as a graduate student.
I did that too, one summer, so.
So, again, what was the, what was the, the dissertation problem?
It was, the dissertation problem was the, the serological diagnosis of equine infectious anemia in horses.
All right, now put that in layman's words.
Okay, it was developed a method to, to,
developed a blood test where you could tell if a horse was in fact infected with the virus of equine infection anemia, because this is very easily transmitted by blood, just like say hepatitis A in people, or B, by blood, by mosquitoes maybe, various ways, and a very devastating disease in horses because there's no recovery from them, they just gradually go down.
But also there were carrier horses that could carry the virus just like HIV.
Show no sign.
So the thing was they wanted to develop a test and the second phase was after I got through was to develop a vaccine.
This is a retrovirus just like the HIV virus.
So a vaccine has never been developed.
But I did develop, did work on a precipitant test and I had two approaches.
One was serological, what they call liquid precipitant test where you take the serum of the horse and a serum from the test animals.
I used rabbits to develop the reagent.
And the other was to do it in an auger gel system where you put the serum in the auger gel from the horse and you already have the antigen in the auger gel.
First they will develop the liquid procedure and then we'll go to the auger gel and you can do both of them.
That's an intention.
I did the serological serum type and started on the gel type and they wanted to publish everything so let's just quit there.
I mention this because a fellow came through by that time and he was on his way back from Africa to Cornell and he'd been working on a similar disease in horses in Africa.
Anyway, he developed the so-called perceptive gel test, and that's the standard test used today.
So we developed the techniques that he used to develop his, so it's known by his name too, so.
And how long did it take you to do this degree?
It took me, I got the degree in January of 95, so it took,
It took, well, it took five years, really.
Wait, you said 95.
I mean, 65.
Yeah, it felt like 95.
65, 65.
I think 65.
Where is it?
Somewhere up here.
65.
And Dr. Bridges was your chairman.
He was my chairman until I switched departments.
But he remained on the committee.
He remained the same committee.
I had Dr. Milleff, Dr. Bridges, and Dr. Moore on the committee.
What were, do you remember any tough obstacles you ran into?
Oh yeah, all kinds of obstacles.
Using some of the test equipment, I've been using it in pathology and there was one piece of equipment up there that no one was using, so I remember one of the faculty members up there in pathology said, well keep using it.
I started using it and Dr. Bridges didn't like that.
Since I wasn't majoring there anymore, you shouldn't be using it.
He gave me a few obstacles.
He made it kind of tough, which is fine.
But it's funny, after I got through, he said, you know you've got a degree in pathology rather than microbiology.
Thanks.
And all of the time and effort that you put in on this was in addition to your full-time duties.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah, definitely.
So normally, where were those hours?
Those hours before?
and late at night.
I spent a lot of time listening to Kelmecs and KRLD at night, listening to the music programs while working in the lab.
In the mornings I go out and play the horses about 5 o'clock.
How many horses were in your... Fifteen horses, yeah.
And they were where?
They were out here at the research farm.
Okay.
And where, and this one I ask naively, where do research animals like that, how are those acquired?
Those are acquired, those are all purchased and they were all purchased, all except ones purchased from West Texas or where the disease is not occurring because they had very few mosquitoes.
All right, so you bought animals that did not have it?
Yeah.
And deliberately?
Deliberately infected them.
Infected them.
And I had one horse, a big stud that was infected, chronic care, and I used him as my source.
Okay.
Yeah.
And these are unbroken horses because when you start handling them, start bleeding them, some of them would turn upside down.
I mean, it really got the, got Harriet time.
How did you pacify them enough to?
You just, you have to just, you put a twitch on them, on their nose and kind of hold them that way.
I had one veterinary student working with me.
In fact, he was in practice in, oh gosh, in Virginia.
I've run into him two or three times, David Borman.
Front row, I'm with Virginia.
And he reminds me every now and then about the, all the circuits we went through leading those horses because some of them just had never, you know, been around a person as far as touching them and jab them with a needle and bleed them out.
Now your routine was to bleed them how often?
Every day.
You know, you had to bleed them, temperature them and make,
or their observations, clinical observations.
You know, examine their eyes and whatever, you see if there's any changes.
Did you ever get to a point where you were afraid that there was going to be a dead end street and wasn't going to work at all?
Yeah, many times.
About once a month you run into that.
And as you look back now, to whom do you feel most grateful for their role in the success of that?
Probably Richard or Wayne Moore probably because he's my advisor, major advisor when I, for the research advisor.
And he kept encouraging me.
Yeah, sure did.
And you published the results in what journals?
Well, we, I submitted my results.
to the American Journal of Veterinary Research and it was accepted but they had two other papers they wanted to publish and
I don't know if I should mention this or not, but Richard Wayne wanted to have a journal of Southwestern Veterinary, which was published by the school here, devoted entirely to equine infectious anemia.
So they asked me if I could pull my article out of the American Journal of Veterinary Research and put it in there.
So maybe foolishly, I did that.
So they had an entire journal on that disease.
So that's where it was published.
Were those your first publications?
Yes, yes, yeah.
And when you walked across the stage and received that degree, how'd you feel?
I felt real good.
That is, you say that's 65?
January 65, yeah.
Still a member, yeah.
All right, now that was then a period of change on this campus because women were getting admitted and integration was beginning.
Right.
Please describe what happened in your classes or in the vet school in general about the admission of women.
Well, first of all, I can still remember going to our annual faculty meeting in Guyon Hall.
I can still remember.
Ed McMurray, if you remember him, he was assistant dean.
He questioned President Rudder about what about co-ed dormitories.
And Dr. or President Rudder didn't like that.
And he read in the Ride Act and I can still remember saying something about highway six runs both ways and you remember that too.
I can still remember that and I thought well they're never going to have co-eds there after that.
But of course he had other things in mind but he was just trying to slow down I guess the dormitory ability.
I can still remember our first veterinary student.
Sonia Lee Oliphant from Poteet, Texas.
How was her, how did you spell her last name?
O-L-I-P-H-A-N-T.
Yeah.
Yeah, I remember her.
And she was, broke the ice and she was kind of a celebrity, what have you.
But it didn't change things much.
Then they started to have more girls in classes.
It sure changed a lot of the lecture material.
As far as you observed, how was she treated by faculty and?
I think she was treated fairly, fairly well.
In lecture class, I could see no difference.
Now, I didn't, I wasn't out in the clinic, so I don't know how she, how she was treated out there.
And from Poteet, so was she from a farming or ranching family?
I think so, yeah.
That's a strawberry area, but I think she was from a farming or ranching family.
And there was no question about her true interest in veterinary medicine.
Not really.
I don't think so.
And you didn't hear anything about her getting any special pluses or minuses?
No.
She was one of the students.
Did you hear of any jokes that any students ever tried to play on her?
No.
I don't remember.
It's funny.
I remember some of the others later on they played jokes on them, but I don't remember.
Now, can you share, I've heard that some of the people had to modify some of their lecture examples.
They did.
Can you think of any examples?
No, I, I, they had to, first of all, they had to change their jokes.
And some of the, well, I can think of examples.
Some of the lectures I'd set in on occasionally, you know, to get the students' attention, they'd throw up a naked woman on the slide every now and then.
Well, they had to stop that.
But most of all, the jokes and the language had to change.
By that time we got, we had the curriculum revision and we had two master's courses, two big courses.
One was a fourteen hour lecture course.
This was all infectious diseases taught in one course except the viral diseases were taught the next semester.
We had a four hour, five hour course but this fourteen hour course had one instructor from each department and it was taught team wise and I was, of course, representing epidemiology as well as public health.
As far as large animal medicine, we had Jim Denton.
I don't know if you remember him or not.
He passed away, but he was known as a hard-boiled old professor, but he was really a, he was really, really a good guy.
With the pathology, we had several pathologists involved.
The first one was Trevino, Gilford Trevino, who was in the Army Air Force, came back here and lectured for a while.
Marcovologist, I'm trying to remember who we had.
Maybe it was Charlie Hall who was doing the microbiology.
Anyway, you could see how they changed their lectures because all of a sudden they had to start changing them.
It was funny just watching how they had to watch their language.
It was really traumatic for some of them.
They'd get out of the lecture hall and they'd cuss like mad.
But it was really a... During those years, where did the typical veterinary medicine faculty members gather to have coffee or whatever to talk about what was going on?
Generally around the offices.
We had no place, common place.
Did you have a group of close friends in those years that you... Not really, no.
We didn't have any place we had to drink coffee.
The only coffee drinking I saw, my office was over where the old museum used to be.
Dr. Jaggi's office was next door to mine and Dr. Patterson, who was an extension veterinarian, was over there.
And occasionally they'd get in one of those three offices and talk and tell jokes, stuff like that.
But that was very small groups.
Now the clinics may have had places, but we didn't have any real place we could meet.
What was your opinion privately about coeducation?
I had no reaction one way there.
I thought it was coming.
I was concerned with more of a curiosity of what's going to happen to the Corps with the coeducational.
But when they decided to start building dorms, I thought, well, they'll probably go.
But I had no concern.